logistics.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Stat 88 Course Information, Fall 2019
---

#### A. Adhikari ####
You must enroll in the lecture and in a discussion section that meets twice weekly. See the [Academic Guide](https://classes.berkeley.edu/content/2019-fall-stat-88-001-lec-001) for details. You can attend only the discussion section in which you are enrolled on CalCentral. Note that quizzes will be held in discussion sections. 

### Enrollment and Prerequisites ###
Please see the [Academic Guide](https://classes.berkeley.edu/content/2019-fall-stat-88-001-lec-001) or the [About](https://stat88.github.io/about/) page for details.
Prerequisites:

- One semester of calculus at the level of Math 16A, Math 10A, or Math 1A. 

Corequisite:

- Foundations of Data Science (COMPSCI / DATASCI / INFO / STAT C8)

These are enforced by CalCentral.

### Text ###
The [course textbook](https://stat88.github.io/textbook/notebooks/intro) will be available on the course website.  Lectures and the textbook will be closely related in content and sequence, though examples done in lecture might be different from those in the text.

### The Required Components of Your Work ###

- **Weekly Homework** which will be done on paper and turned in to the course Gradescope. Homework will be posted each Monday at 4pm, and will be due **Monday at noon** of the following week. In some weeks there may be deviations from this due to exams or holidays; we’ll let you know. Homework is graded based on correctness. As there is plenty of support available and you have a week to do the work, we expect that you will get the problems pretty much wholly right.
- **Quizzes** four times during the term, in the discussion section in which you are enrolled. No computers involved. Dates will be posted before the first day of class.
	- Quiz 1: Thursday 9/12
	- Quiz 2: Thursday 9/26
	- Quiz 3: Thursday 10/31
    - Quiz 4: Thursday 11/21
- **Midterm** on **Friday October 11, 2019** (time to be announced). No substitutes except as required by university rules.
- **Final exam** on **Tuesday December 17, 2019, from 7pm-10pm** (exam group 8). Room to be announced. No substitutes except as required by university rules. **The final is required for a passing grade. Please make sure that you are not enrolled in a class that has a conflicting final exam.**

Data science is not a solitary activity; please expect to participate in lectures and discussion section. Lectures will not be webcast. The online text will contain what is covered but it might have different examples. And of course it will not contain the discussions generated by questions asked in class.

### Grading ###
In the calculation of your overall score, we will drop

- your two lowest homework scores
- your lowest quiz score 

Course grades will be assigned by taking the **maximum** of:

- 20% Homework, 20% Quizzes, 25% Midterm, 35% Final
- 20% Homework, 20% Quizzes, 60% Final

### Collaboration and Integrity ###
You are encouraged to discuss practice problems and homework with your fellow students and with course staff. Arguing with friends about exercises is an excellent and time-honored way to learn. However, you must write up all your own assignments.

Copying assignments from others is not only dishonest, it also doesn’t help anyone. Each exercise requires its own combination of ideas, and each student needs practice in coming up with those combinations, or else they will be at a loss when trying to use probability theory in their future work. From a purely practical perspective, all students must work independently on Stat 88 quizzes and exams – no collaboration allowed. If a test is the first time a student works independently, then the test is not likely to go well.

Stat 88 materials including exams and solutions are the intellectual property of the course developers. From the campus statement on Academic Integrity: “… students may not circulate or post materials (handouts, exams, syllabi, i.e. any class materials) from their classes without the written permission of the instructor.”

I am extremely tough with dishonest students and I hope that I will not be put in that situation in Stat 88 I expect that you will work with integrity and with respect for other members of the class, just as the course staff will work with integrity and with respect for you.

Commit message:

Small edits, and added midterm time

logistics.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Stat 88 Course Information, Fall 2019
---

#### A. Adhikari ####
You must enroll in the lecture and in a discussion section that meets twice weekly. See the [Academic Guide](https://classes.berkeley.edu/content/2019-fall-stat-88-001-lec-001) for details. You can attend only the discussion section in which you are enrolled on CalCentral. Note that quizzes will be held in discussion sections. 

### Enrollment and Prerequisites ###
Please see the [Academic Guide](https://classes.berkeley.edu/content/2019-fall-stat-88-001-lec-001) or the [About](https://stat88.github.io/about/) page for details.
Prerequisites:

- One semester of calculus at the level of Math 16A, Math 10A, or Math 1A. 

Corequisite:

- Foundations of Data Science (COMPSCI / DATASCI / INFO / STAT C8)

These are enforced by CalCentral.

### Text ###
The [course textbook](https://stat88.github.io/textbook/notebooks/intro) will be available on the course website.  Lectures and the textbook will be closely related in content and sequence, though examples done in lecture might be different from those in the text.

### The Required Components of Your Work ###

- **Weekly Homework** which will be done on paper and turned in to the course Gradescope. Homework will be posted each Monday evening and will be due the following **Monday at noon**. In some weeks (such as Week 1) there may be deviations from this due to exams or holidays; we’ll let you know. Homework is graded based on correctness. As there is plenty of support available and you have a week to do the work, we expect that you will get the problems pretty much wholly right.
- **Quizzes** four times during the term, in the discussion section in which you are enrolled. Dates:
	- Quiz 1: Thursday 9/12
	- Quiz 2: Thursday 9/26
	- Quiz 3: Thursday 10/31
    - Quiz 4: Thursday 11/21
- **Midterm** on **Friday October 11, 2019** during the lecture hour. No substitutes except as required by university rules.
- **Final exam** on **Tuesday December 17, 2019, from 7pm-10pm** (exam group 8). Room to be announced. No substitutes except as required by university rules. **The final is required for a passing grade. Please make sure that you are not enrolled in a class that has a conflicting final exam.**

Data science is not a solitary activity; please expect to participate in lectures and discussion section. Lectures will not be webcast. The online text will contain the main points covered. 

### Grading ###
In the calculation of your overall score, we will drop

- your two lowest homework scores
- your lowest quiz score 

Course grades will be assigned by taking the **maximum** of:

- 20% Homework, 20% Quizzes, 25% Midterm, 35% Final
- 20% Homework, 20% Quizzes, 60% Final

### Collaboration and Integrity ###
You are encouraged to discuss practice problems and homework with your fellow students and with course staff. Arguing with friends about exercises is an excellent and time-honored way to learn. However, you must write up all your own assignments.

Copying assignments from others is not only dishonest, it also doesn’t help anyone. Each exercise requires its own combination of ideas, and each student needs practice in coming up with those combinations, or else they will be at a loss when trying to use probability theory in their future work. From a purely practical perspective, all students must work independently on Stat 88 quizzes and exams – no collaboration allowed. If a test is the first time a student works independently, then the test is not likely to go well.

Stat 88 materials including exams and solutions are the intellectual property of the course developers. From the campus statement on Academic Integrity: “… students may not circulate or post materials (handouts, exams, syllabi, i.e. any class materials) from their classes without the written permission of the instructor.”

I am extremely tough with dishonest students and I hope that I will not be put in that situation in Stat 88 I expect that you will work with integrity and with respect for other members of the class, just as the course staff will work with integrity and with respect for you.
